# Rebuttal 2 - Reviewer 1

We appreciate the Reviewer's effort and time responding to our rebuttal and the interesting comments.

> Finally, it's the same story for deriving stability from the single oscillators to the network. Of course you can make the stiffness matrix negative definite to achieve a non-stable network but again, if all parameters are positive (definite), meaning defined so that you would expect the system to be stable, I think that the system is stable. I'd change me opinion if you can provide a counter example where the parameters are positive (definite) but would lead to an unstable system / network.

First, we would like to take a step back and position the Reviewer's concerns in a broader context:

1. While Theorem 1 is an important element of the proof, we see **Theorem 2** as the main _stability proof_ contribution of the paper. To the best of our knowledge, we are the first in this community to provide explicit input-to-state stability guarantees including convergence rates into the region of attraction (Theorem 2). This contribution makes it possible for practitioners to design & sample & constrain the system parameters such that the desired convergence rates are achieved (and guaranteed), which is not possible without Theorem 2.
2. We fundamentally difer with the Reviewer's opinion that the proof of Theorem 1 is trivial. In the next paragraphs, we will go into more technical details why in general even positive-definite stiffness & damping matrices are not sufficient to claim global asymptotic stability.
3. That said, the simplicity of the proof of Theorem 1 is in our opinion not a bug, but a feature. In order to be able to derive such a _simple_ proof of Theorem 1, we had to design the CON network in a particular way. Specifically, we had to make sure that (a) a coordinate transformation exists that allows us to identify a Lyapunov candidate, (b) that the system has a potential energy. We see these two design choices a contribution by themselves as they allow the proof to be simpler as it could have been otherwise. Furthermore, they derivation of a potential energy expression allows us to later perform model-based control.
4. We want to stress that already small modifications to the network formulation and the underlying assumptions in Theorem 1 would have made the proof much more difficult (or even impossible). In the following, we will give two examples of such modifications where the CON network (in the original coordinates) would have, according to the Reviewer's argument, appeared to be stable, but a stability proof would be hard.